Quagga Security Note 2018-1975
==============================

https://www.quagga.net/security/Quagga-2018-1975.txt


Affects:
--------

- Quagga version 0.99.9, and all later versions
- All versions, if the "override-capability" neighbour option is set (not
  the default).


Summary
-------

The Quagga BGP daemon, bgpd, can enter an infinite loop if sent an invalid
OPEN message by a configured peer.


Impact
------

This problem is triggerable by packets from a configured peer.  

When triggered, the bgpd daemon enters an infinite loop and cease to respond
to any other events.  BGP sessions will drop and not be reestablished.  The
CLI interface will be unresponsive.  The bgpd daemon will stay in this state
until it is restarted.


Solution
--------

Upgrade to Quagga version 1.2.3 or later, or apply the fix from commit:

  "bgpd/security: fix infinite loop on certain invalid OPEN messages"

Until then, the problem can be mitigated by enabling watchquagga and
ensuring that it monitors bgpd and restarts it if it ceases to be
responsive.

Disabling capability negotiation will also prevent the problem from
occurring, but may cause problems. It is not recommended to disable
capability negotiation in normal operation.


Description
------------

The Quagga BGP daemon, bgpd, had a bug in its parsing of "Capabilities" in
BGP OPEN messages, in the bgp_packet.c:bgp_capability_msg_parse function. 
The parser can enter an infinite loop on invalid capabilities if a
Multi-Protocol capability does not have a recognised AFI/SAFI.

The issue was introduced in commit 6d58272b4c, by copying an incorrect
pattern of code from an existing check on a configuration flag (which also
has the issue) and applying it to protocol data.

This issue can be triggered by a configured peer, accidentally or
deliberately.  It could also be configured by others, if transport security
and/or network topology allowed an attacker to spoof a full TCP connection.

The consequence of this bug is that bgpd enters an infinite loop. The bgpd
daemon will not be able to do any other work as a consequence, including
servicing BGP and CLI sessions. BGP sessions will time out and drop and not
be re-established. This state will persist until the bgpd is restarted.
